Please leave from the British Standards Institution, and I'm going to tell you about the smartest suffered live lab that we've been involved in which is an Internet of Things program in the East of England.
Next slide.
A little background about beer size, we were formed 120 years ago as the national standards body to support the development of standards for a consensus with industry and we're independent of industry.
Through consensus with industry and we're independent of industry. We also with a founding member of the International Standards Organization. One of the first standards we produce was around supporting trans travel across land, London, and reduce 75
gauges down to five, which did mean, a lot of service disruption and digging up trend lines, and their analogies to today's infrastructure investments in digital to make sure we agree consensus early on, rather than replace technologies which will slow
up the pace of innovation, and the use of technologies.
Let me tell you about the software project so this is for the Department for Transport the Association of directors in economy environment planning and transport for county councils to test IoT sensors and service innovations for the management of highways,
other project partners including ourselves the University of Suffolk bt The British telecommunications PLC approving services are working with 13 suppliers of different sensor types to test and evaluate the technical performance of those sensors, but
also the business case for the use of the data to help transform the services themselves. Now Suffolk is a rural county with 4200 miles of road 80,000 lighting columns over 1000 bridges to monitor.
145,000 Road galleries to monitor.
It has a pressure on reducing its energy footprint, and they've already switched to low energy LED lighting and saved a million pounds in doing so, there's still potential through adaptive street lighting to save another 30% over 2 billion pound bill
on energy.
But the key issue is to see whether sensors and data can help transform services, and some of the other use cases include Adult Social Care for people living at home who wants assisted living, so they can stay at home for longer nearly 50% of the council's
budget is spent on Adult Social Care.
But in the highway scenario that would be a benefit of the infrastructure they're looking at investing in for the highways road surface temperature monitoring is quite key to support the reduction in in needing to grip two roads, of which they do around
2100 miles of roads they grits when we get freezing conditions and suffer.
If they can monitor the road surface at a more granular level around the county, there may not be a need to grip all 2100 roads, miles of road. And so they've been testing different roads surface temperature monitoring sensors and comparing them technically,
to see how they perform, and if they can get that better information.
Similarly, they've got other applications such as bridge strike sensors to monitor, if they need to go out and repair bridges and also to detect what vehicles have hit the bridges, all of this data is collected into a central database.
It shared with the operational management team to work out how they can deliver the services, and that data is now being considered to be opened up with businesses and citizens for future innovations.
Moving on to the next slide, our involvement has been to look at the standards related to this whole architecture from the left hand side all of the different use cases, through the communications through to the data collection and analysis visualization
and use.
We initially did a standard landscape review, which identified 1431 standards. We did a gap analysis on that to identify where there might be some gaps that may need feeling around guidance to help councils, bring all of this data together, but also to
pick out the most relevant standards to the council, and then moving on to the next slide, we've actually helped the council through workshops and reports, identify the key standards that would be of most relevance, from the leadership guides on the left
hand side.
Through frameworks and concepts of being citizens and bringing in governance models and cyber security and looking at data interoperability on the right across different silos of data sets so that data can be used and compare and contrast it, and also
opened up to citizens and businesses through an open information marketplace.
Moving on to the next slide.
We've tried to refine this large landscape into a simpler
process charts with swim lanes, going from left to right, but also the different levels from leadership guides at the top.
Through processes and technical guides at the bottom.
And this is helping the council understand sort of which standards to use at the outset for procurement and specification but also on sort of metrics and monitoring on the right.
And we are helping the council bring all of this information together with all the use cases into a knowledge chat platform where we can debate reports and agreed consensus, and then we're going to open this out beyond Suffolk live lab to the whole of
the UK and then internationally so others can learn from the best practice that is captured.
Thank you very much. That's my summary.
Thank you very much.